tell me something how do you feel as a
vegan knowing that even if we manage to
achieve a 20% decrease in meat
consumption if we had a reducer terian
uprising you know 20% decrease in demand
nothing would change nothing would
change
except meat would become cheaper and
more readily available for all the
people who are still buying and eating
meat if this is about the animals if
this is about ecology or even if this is
about public education and outreach
fundamentally people become vegan when
they discover when they learn that it's
the right thing to do
and the progress of the vegan movement
relies in us asking again and again
won't you join us
won't you do the right thing simply
because it's the right thing to do and
everyone knows the hinge that's gonna
turn on more than anything else is going
to be public education and outreach and
guess what boycotts they actually don't
reach out to or educate anyone the main
effect they have is reaffirming our own
sense which I would call a delusion of
our moral purity this is tough love
people I'm not gonna give you a
reassuring half truth or a lie like oh
yeah good for you
by taking palm oil out of your fridge
and putting in the garbage you're doing
something really positive you're doing
the best you can you're not it's really
deeply disturbing to instead consider
how futile those kinds of gestures are
and that direct intervention would take
everything you've got to give who's
gonna make that commitment the odds are
it's not going to be you or if is you
it's only going to be the one issue to
the exclusion of all others I think a
decision made in a supermarket from a
couple of thousand miles away still has
an impact not many people can divide
their time between all the causes they
believe in choosing how we spend our
money is then
easy way to vote what we believe in
you're right it's easy it's too easy
it's facile it's exactly that easy
cop-out you're taking that I'm here to
challenge what I want to do isn't easy
okay I want to win I want to make a real
difference I want to challenge you to
think this through and again he says a
decision made in a supermarket still has
an impact right more than zero impact
but now let's question that that can't
be the end of the conversation that has
to be the beginning of our analysis
same with street activism same with
boycott based consumer activism
something I've said to people now again
and again last couple weeks is look I
have my own unique contribution to make
to the vegan movement and it is not
standing in silence wearing a mask now
look some people are deaf-mutes some
people cannot speak I still would not
recommend that they contribute to the
movement by standing in silence wearing
a mask I think there's probably sign of
really said about sign language outreach
and you know how someone communicating
in sign language would do activism not
really my topic for this video but I say
to you also if you have the ability to
watch this video on YouTube I really
think the odds are you also have a
unique contribution to make to the
future of the movement and it is not
standing in silence wearing a mask and
it is not just reducing the number of
items in your fridge that are linked to
a history onic preachy over-the-top post
on facebook that told you what you
should and should not buy so that you
can label yourself a morally good person
we have to move past the boycott
mentality
[Music]
a Venice yen remember jay-z had that
lyric if you don't like my lyrics you
can press fast-forward look guys um a
lot of what you get on this channel is
tough love for the vegan movement I
think you know if you've even just
started watching my videos this month it
comes from a place of love I really love
I really care about the future of the
vegan movement and it's happening and in
many ways I'm profoundly optimistic
about what's happening but it is tough
love you're gonna get here not
reassuring half-truths and if you don't
like it you can close the video you can
press stop
you can press fast-forward I'd urge you
not to because I think I'm raising
really important questions that for many
of you are gonna have important and
somewhat unexpected answers had someone
writing in to me following up on the
palm oil issue and the question of how
we can make a positive difference in
this world
given where it is we're starting from in
the movement in 2018 vegan dreamer wrote
in quote the biggest thing with palm oil
is we are told about massive
reforestation I think she made a typo
there she probably meant deforestation
orangutan homeless and dying I even met
someone who meant to Southeast Asia and
saw for self the devastation I see your
point
and it's a great argument but I also
want to do the right thing
now look core intentions here are 100%
positive I completely recognize that and
you'll see what I save my reply what I
say my reply is tough love I don't give
her a half truth I don't reassure her
and I don't sit down and Pat her on the
head for having good intentions because
good intentions are simply not good
enough but we want to have our good
impacts and good outcomes what we want
is to play to win at the end of this
game we don't want to be the losers who
had the best of intentions right and
that applies to specific case studies
and examples like what do you want to do
about orangutans and applies to the
movement as a whole but before every my
reply here just step back for a second
and realized I
taken on two of the biggest delusions in
the vegan movement just within this
month two of the most unchallenged
deep-seated assumptions about what
action and activism and organizing the
movement is one of those topics was
basically the significance of street
protests street theatre street
demonstrations including direct action
everywhere anonymous for the voiceless
cube of truth and I really got to see
and also here when I had voice chat with
people Skype calls that kind of
communication I was really I don't know
galvanizing other vegans I was sparking
something new a new set of
considerations where they were suddenly
looking at and re-evaluating how they
were using their time and what the real
outcomes were in a very significant and
meaningful way and it's not on the basis
of claiming that there's zero ethicacy
to these street protests I was saying to
one colleague a guy who has a degree as
a lawyer he has a high level of
education he has various options for how
we can make a difference in ecology in
the vegan movement through various means
he has better options in his life than
standing on the street and screaming at
people or holding a sign or just wearing
a mask I said to him look this this
protest that just took place in Canada
in Ottawa Canada called nation rising
they put more than a year of planning
into this they had support from all of
the biggest vegan and animal rights
foundations in Canada some of them non
vegan but mostly vegan you know vegan
and allied organizations ie I've never
seen a single photograph or video that
shows more than 50 people showing up it
looks to me like fewer than 50 people
like when I'm counting honestly I can
count like 35 people on camera than any
one time and I said to him you and me if
we had done this if we had put a year of
work into this and I think it was more
than a year we would now be sitting down
and saying to each other wow what a huge
waste of potential that was what a huge
waste of time and money that was
basically we organized
fewer than 50 vegans to show up
stand in the Sun and get a pep talk get
a lecture from James ass be from another
vegan about how we should all pat
ourselves on the back and feel so great
about being vegans it is about treating
others the way that you want to be
treated
it is about extending a circle of
compassion to embrace all living bangs
and simply it's yeah give it up movement
and this is not a cult if it was a cult
we'll be the best damn cold ever
[Applause]
regardless tell the government to change
the subsidies when people still want to
eat these products of violence and
torture and killing we need to educate
people we need to encourage people we
need to inspire people this should be an
inclusive group where everybody feels
welcome and supported and that's what I
conveyed when we're asking for a
compassionate world it's no good just to
tell other people to help make it happen
we need to walk the path we need a talk
with compassion walk with compassion and
show how that's done and shred it well
so that it's easier for others to follow
the world will change because of people
like us who have been sitting here for
hours in the hot Sun here and what a lot
of us already know but just reaffirming
what we believed who changed because of
people like us sitting here for hours
here and what a lot of us already know
this this was nothing but vegans it was
an act of self congratulation this
accomplished nothing and of course we
were having this conversation because we
were talking about the other things we
each of us hopes to accomplish in the
last year and what we're hoping to
accomplish next year the year ahead may
be a two year time frame right these are
serious decisions we've got to make and
they have huge impacts on people's lives
I've had no protracted discussions with
several people and they're saying to me
oh but the street activism it's so
effective like you know we we we reach
300 people it's like guess what
I can do a video on YouTube about Game
of Thrones I can reach more than 300
people like there up like 300 is not a
huge number you so you're telling me 15
people devoted like 30 hours of labor
over several weekends and you reached it
well let's really think about this let's
really talk about what's effective and
what you're challenging there as they
say I call it a delusion but it's really
just I mean it starts off as an
unquestioned assumption that the most
effective most important form of
activism is standing on that Street and
testifying right and today what we're
dealing with is a similarly deep-seated
unchallenged assumption that the way to
make a difference in the world is
through boycotts is the boycott
mentality okay so here we go I replied
to this person
vegan dreamer quote doing the right
thing involves positive action not just
negation boycotts reduced consumption
and antinatalism are all negative and
passive rather than positive and active
interventions if you want to help
orangutan s-- you have to actually help
orangutan that may be tragic and
burdensome for you to face up to it is
what it is
you're not helping casualties of the
Syrian civil war by refusing to purchase
syrian products the war on the ukraine
isn't going to end through a boycott nor
through antinatalism the dolphins in the
mekong river won't be saved by your
buying less of anything really but you
can actually help them by doing things
as opposed to refusing to buy things get
it this is tough love guys I'm not
saying this out of contempt for this
person or hatred or anger but this
person is so deep in this boycott
mentality that the only way the primary
way or the only way to pursue an
advanced social change is through a
boycott and when you
think of just this broader set of
comparisons of examples it is tragic and
burdensome it is frankly humiliating
it's humiliating to think oh if I care
about a human rights issue well do I
really care about it and maybe I care
about it not to buy something made in
Syria when I go to the grocery store I
don't know when the last time was you
saw a product made in Syria on sale at
the grocery store oh maybe I care enough
about this to modify my consumer habits
just slightly but of course it's
humiliating and difficult to face up to
the fact that you've got to prioritize
these things maybe there are human
rights issues within your own country
that would be harder and more
humiliating for you to deal with
indigenous people who have been
displaced who are living in poverty here
in Canada we have human rights problems
in Thunder Bay Ontario that are still
ongoing
you know what really can you do if
you're a Canadian citizen to help people
in Syria as opposed to helping people in
Thunder Bay and why are you making that
choice that can be a very difficult kind
of self-examination
to get into and you can't help them all
you can't do it all you are making
choices are you gonna help dolphins in
the Mekong River or are you gonna help
orangutans if you really help them not
passively not negatively but positively
and actively it's gonna take everything
you've got to give time effort and
probably money if you want to set up and
get a foundation rolling doing this work
or you could do it solo it could be a
one-man activist going out helping read
news helps if you have a background in
veterinary science or something but sure
if you want to you can roll up your
sleeves you can do humanitarian work
alone I met many people who did it in a
sense I was a person doing inter trying
to do it when I was in Southeast Asia
too I didn't have any organization
backing me and it was tough and again
there's a humiliating question to ask
here if this is really what you want to
do why is it orangutan in far-off
Indonesia why isn't it you know a
species in your own backyard
sorry assuming you're not watching this
video in Indonesia assuming you're
living in England Canada Australia
anywhere else in the world in your
country right now there are species
probably endangered species and probably
not endangered species that could use
your help your time and effort and money
to reach out to them and serve them in
this direct and active way do you want
to do that do you want to make that
sacrifice
that's time you won't be spending on
your own family and in a sense it's time
you won't be spending on on the vegan
movement proper it's time you won't be
spending supporting say a vegan diet
abolishing slaughterhouses or think it's
humiliating to have to deal with that
with the finitude
of what you've got to contribute and
that's exactly what people don't want to
face up that's what the boycott
mentality lets you think the boycott
mentality lets you think you can make an
infinite positive difference in the
world
by reducing the scope of your incredibly
finite consumption here's the next
message that was written into me on this
Hado rights so economics
sanctions are useless question mark now
let me just posit for one second
so many people would just be intimidated
by this kind of statement I find this is
especially true in left-wing politics
rather than you know conservative or
centrist politics just someone throws
out an economic claim about capitalism
and like that's the end of the
conference nobody wants to challenge it
that's you know it puts a sort of
powerful punctuation into the
conversation you know period Oh
oh he took a stand on economic sanctions
well I'm not so easily intimidated and
again this is one of the reasons why I
bring tough loves the moon I know other
people can't ask these questions and
can't broach these answers in the way I
can all right I'm not deterred by this
you'll see my reply so economics and
sanctions are useless
he asks sarcastically assuming the
population in question aren't idiots
hopefully they'll recognize the path of
least resistance in a capitalist society
a drop in demand does what question mark
I think a decision made in a supermarket
from a couple of thousand miles away
still has an impact pause again keep in
mind at what I said over and over again
in the critique of street activism I'm
not claiming that screaming on the
street has zero impact I'm saying when
we sit down in all honesty and examine
it in comparison to the alternatives
whether you're a lawyer or you're a
musician I gave a million examples you
have to be really skeptical but is this
or is this not the most effective option
you've got and in most cases I think the
answer is no something I've said to
people now again and again last couple
weeks is look I have my own unique
contribution to make to the vegan
movement and it is not standing in
silence wearing a mask now look at some
people are deaf mutes some people cannot
speak I still would not recommend that
they contribute to the movement by
standing in silence wearing a mask I
think there's probably Sun you've really
said about sign language outreach and
you know how someone communicating in
sign language would do activism not
really my topic for this video but I say
to you also if you have
of the ability to watch this video on
YouTube I really think the odds are you
also have a unique contribution to make
to the future of the movement and it is
not standing in silence wearing a mask
and it is not just reducing the number
of items in your fridge that are linked
to a history onic preachy over-the-top
post on Facebook that told you what you
should and should not buy so that you
can label yourself a morally good person
we have to move past the boycott
mentality not many people can divide
their time between all the causes they
believe in choosing how we spend our
money is an easy way to vote for what we
believe in Oh so you notice implicitly
this is affirming what I just said to
you in between you're right it's easy
it's too easy it's facile it's exactly
that easy cop-out you're taking that I'm
here to challenge what I want to do
isn't easy okay I want to win I want to
make a real difference I want to
challenge you to think this through and
again he says a decision made in a
supermarket still has an impact right
more than zero impact but now let's
question that that can't be the end of
the conversation that has to be the
beginning of our analysis
same with street activism same with
boycott based consumer activism quote
regarding in a capitalist society a drop
in demand does one answer it results in
lower prices
I formerly studied economics did you
tell me something how do you feel as a
vegan knowing that even if we manage to
achieve a 20% decrease in meat
consumption if we had a reduce a Tyrian
uprising you know 20% decrease in demand
nothing would change nothing would
change
except meat would become cheaper and
more readily available for all the
people who are still buying and eating
meat whether they're reduce at Ariens or
just plain old omnivores how would you
feel about that accomplishment how would
you feel about the fact that your
accomplishment can never compete
with even what a mild recession or
economic depression does or even sorry
currently there's a trade dispute
started by Donald Trump that's resulted
in a massive decline in demand for beef
we can't compete with that
through these boycott methods right so
there were a lot of pieces of the puzzle
missing here and yeah guess what the
impact is the impact is lower prices for
everyone else yeah I did study economics
no I'm not intimidated but that's this
kind of you know stereotypical
invocation oh here's an economic concept
yeah you think you're scoring points and
you're not this was a pathetic own-goal
all right
quote I think a decision made in a
supermarket from a couple thousand miles
away still has an impact close quote gee
do you think that setting up a charity
that directly provides veterinary care
rescue and relocation of orangutans
would have an impact do you think that
operating habitat conservation area and
perhaps relocating orangutans to that
special Park from agricultural and urban
areas would have an impact how about
preventing hunting or poaching by having
men with guns on patrol is that a little
bit too abstract for you to picture what
kind of impact that might have this is
tough love people I'm not gonna give you
a reassuring half truth or a lie like oh
yeah good for you
by taking palm oil out of your fridge
and putting in the garbage you're doing
something really positive you're doing
the best you can you're not it's really
deeply disturbing to instead consider
how futile those kinds of gestures are
and that direct intervention would take
everything you've got to give who's
gonna make that commitment the odds are
it's not going to be you or if is you
it's only going to be the one issue to
the exclusion of all others quote so
economic sanctions are useless question
mark close quote
I formerly studied political science did
you take a look at North Korea take a
look at Cuba take a look at the Ukraine
conflict do you think a consumer boycott
on palm oil could ever have as much of
an impact as the history of recent
sanctions against North Korea Cuba and
Russia do you think it could even have
5% as much impact and what are those
impacts you could be 18 years old and
you could be 84 I know
in either case grow up my claim is not
that economic sanctions have zero impact
economic sanctions against Cuba and
North Korea enforced by the world's
greatest Navy with an unlimited budget
enforced by American aircraft carriers
burning billions of dollars they have a
little bit of an impact they have
utterly failed to achieve their goals
over decades and decades of enforcement
but no I would not say economic
sanctions on Cuba North Korea have had
zero impact I would never say that that
would be ridiculous
however I would say that if you think
vegans boycotting palm oil could ever
have an impact even 5% as significant as
the u.s. needly blockade of Cuba you are
insane and if you make any reasonable
analysis of what that impact is either
the 100 percent or the five percent
situations like know through Cuba I
think you'd have to have again a really
humbling reevaluation of what you're
doing in terms of boycott based activism
what you're doing you know short term
and long term if this is about the
animals if this is about ecology or even
if this is about public education and
outreach fundamentally people become
vegan when they discover when they learn
that it's the right thing to do and the
progress of the vegan movement relies on
us asking again and again won't you join
us won't you do the right thing simply
because it's the right thing to do and
everyone knows the hinge that's gonna
turn on more
and anything else is going to be public
education and outreach and guess what
boycotts they actually don't reach out
to or educate anyone the main effect
they have is reaffirming our own sense
which I would call a delusion of our
moral purity because we've got less and
less stuff in our fridge that somebody
said on Facebook was dirty and bad and
immoral and it lets us turn a blind eye
to the tragic reality of what we can and
cannot do whether it's for exotic
orangutan in far-off Indonesia or bears
suffering and dying in our own backyard
I got love for the vegan movement
I got hope for the future guys if you
keep watching this channel I'm gonna
keep asking the tough questions about us
Yin